What's up, my name is Matthew and welcome to my channel. On this channel, I talk about everything religion and lack thereof, predominantly the Christian religion because I'm in the United States.

In this video, I just want to give a brief introduction to my own story: who I am, where I came from, and how I deconstructed my own religious beliefs along the way.

I'm originally from a two-mile-wide country town called Alva, Oklahoma. Country towns have been way over-indexed on Christianity pretty much forever.

These are towns where it's really easy to just stick to what you know, and follow what your parents and your friends believe. And that's exactly what I did for most of my life.

I was born in 1995. Back then, Christianity was even more popular than it is today.

I would say that back then, 95 to 99% of my town was Christian. Pretty much everyone you ran into, you could just assume they were Christian.

You didn't necessarily ask, are you Christian? It was more of, which church do you go to?

And that's how it was the entire time I was growing up. For the majority of my childhood, I too was a Christian.

And I wasn't just a Christian. I was two to three church camps per summer, a mission trip to Haiti, youth group on Sunday night and Wednesday night.

In addition to church, I was splitting my time heavily between the Baptist and Nazarene church, because that's just how my grandparents did it.

My grandpa was a Baptist. My grandma went to the Nazarene church, so I split my time between both.

A lot of my friends were Baptist, but the pastor I was closest to was at the Nazarene church. So I was just really ingrained in the culture of Christianity.

I'd read the Bible completely through a couple of different times. And ultimately, as I was growing up, I realized that everyone kind of believed the same thing.

I was comfortable in my own skin. I was comfortable with what I believed, and I never really doubted.

Not until probably just before middle school, maybe sixth grade. And it wasn't that I doubted Christianity; I wanted to believe in Christianity.

I still considered myself a Christian for about five years after that. But around sixth grade is when I realized I was more of an almost non-theistic Christian.

I was a Christian because it was the socially acceptable thing. And I believed in a lot of the moral and ethical values that came with it.

But I wasn't a Christian in the sense that I truly believed in a God or a higher power. It was in the same vein as Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny.

I didn't really believe in something that I couldn't see or hear or touch. And around that time I struggled a little bit, wrangling with the idea of a God.

But I didn't really start questioning it until later on in high school, mostly because I was just comfortable. I was just a kid who wanted to fit in.

I was a kid who didn't want to cause problems. I hung out with my friends, I went to church, I did all the things.

But it was around middle school that I actually stopped believing in God. And in high school, I went on a mission trip to Haiti.

At that time, I still didn't really believe in God. But I was still a Christian, and I still enjoyed going on the trip.

I tended to stick to myself. I didn't really talk about God or get deeply embedded into religious discussions.

I just kind of stopped questioning and accepted where I was. And then it was my sophomore or junior year of high school when I actually started questioning more directly.

And of course, as I grew up, technology was evolving very heavily. I went from a Motorola Razr flip phone to one of the first iPhones, my sophomore or junior year.

And having access to the internet, being someone who had a computer at home in a small country town like that, was actually kind of uncommon at the time.

And being able to ask questions and look them up on the internet. Of course, things were not nearly as fleshed out as they are now.

There weren't endless Reddit threads or Yahoo Answers about these kinds of questions. But you could find some level of information on what people believed.

It was also at this time that I began taking college classes while I was still in high school, just to get some credits before university, which I knew I'd leave my hometown to do.

And it was then that I was introduced to the secular student organization at the university in my hometown. It wasn't a massive university, but there were people who were secular there.

I got to meet them and understand more about different belief systems that were not just Christianity. And that was the first time I was even aware that there were other religions.

Growing up in a small town like that, you kind of are isolated to the point where you just assume that everyone believes the same thing across the world.

And it's funny, you also have a really weird sense of how big things are. I remember thinking my town was medium-sized.

I went to college and realized my town is tiny, tiny compared to where a lot of the people I met in college went to school.

It was also in high school that I realized Christianity kind of led people to be a bit hateful of things they didn't know or weren't comfortable with.

And what I mostly mean is, of course, on the topic of race, sexuality, and gender. Growing up in a small country town, it's mostly white Christian conservative straight people.

And when there were people of color, it was very common for them to get used to being called slurs and be okay with that. If they wanted to fit in, they'd have to be cool with it.

And I realized that I just didn't vibe with that. Not to say I never made mistakes, not to say I never said those things.

Of course, I think most people have at some point in their life. And of course, I've learned better by now.

But even then, I realized, why are we saying these things? Why are we doing these things?

It also happened when we had someone in my high school who was gay, and I saw how he got treated when he came out. People acted uncomfortable around him.

And even people who considered him a friend were no longer as close. And I just didn't agree with any of that.

And it was that, on top of doing my own research, my own thinking, and being introduced to the secular student organization, all these things at once.

It helped me come to terms with the fact that, yeah, I hadn't believed in a God for five years. I'd just been Christian because I believed in the moral and ethical aspects of it.

Which had been kind of deconstructed by that point. And I realized I don't get that morality and ethical view from Christianity.

In fact, now I have morals and ethics that are almost in spite of Christianity. At least in spite of how most Christians interpret those beliefs.

And I also realized that there are social circles that no longer require me to act like I'm Christian. And it was my junior year of high school when I started telling people I didn't really believe anymore.

Because I stopped going to church, I stopped going to youth groups, I stopped signing up for church camps. And people asked questions, because I was a very involved Christian.

And that's when I started telling people, yeah, I just don't really believe anymore. And the amount of weird looks you get is wild.

The amount of people you thought were friends who no longer interact with you the same way. The amount of people who straight up no longer spend any time with you.

It's not everybody, of course. Most normal people didn't really care.

But there was a decent chunk of people who definitely moved differently once they realized I no longer believed.

I remember my mom was really upset when I told her I didn't really believe. And I also remember my grandma, since I grew up with my grandparents.

At one point when she was yelling at me about it, she said, the devil has your soul. To which I responded, I don't believe in him either, before I walked out the door.

So that is the environment that I was growing up in, that I lived through. And then I went to college.

And that's when I really met a big, diverse group of people, in race, gender, sexual orientation, and religious belief. I met other people who were raised in the same environment as me who questioned their own beliefs.

And it was kind of in this meeting of other people who aren't like you that you become more empathetic to people who aren't like you.

And that is where I realized that, as much as Christianity has some justification with moral and ethical belief, and of course it gives people meaning, I don't base my own in that.

It's taken a lot of time to deconstruct all of the things I previously believed, the things I thought gave me value or meaning, and to find places to actually redirect that energy.

And nowadays I think my own hometown is down to like 80% Christian. Because of the access to the internet, and the access to having friends who aren't exactly like you.

A lot of people, especially in these small towns, are now building online communities, because there's just more to do on the internet than there is in our hometown.

So hanging out with friends on Discord, it's now more common to have non-religious friends than it used to be. And so you're exposed to more ideas, and more thoughts.

And so that's pretty much how I grew up, and how I came to my own conclusions on this. It is really difficult to question yourself when you're in an environment so heavily geared in one direction.

And you don't really have anyone else to lean on. I didn't know anybody who was an atheist when I started questioning.

I didn't know anybody who was an atheist when I finally came to the realization, other than the secular group of students I met in college. No one in my family was an atheist.

And for me, it was hard to come out and be different in that way. And I'm very grateful that I found a community to support me in college.

People who had similar backgrounds and ideas and ways they viewed the world. And I'm hopeful that the state of Oklahoma kind of gets its act together.

They're so focused on throwing Bibles in classrooms, instead of focusing on the education, and making sure students aren't having teen pregnancies, or drinking and driving, or getting addicted to substances.

I think there's a lot in Oklahoma that needs to be done that is not based in just throwing Bibles in classrooms. So that's a little bit about me.

Something I'll note that's a little wholesome: I remember my father, when he moved out of my hometown to Oklahoma City. I would see him every once in a while.

I remember telling him that I no longer was a Christian. And he knew I was big into church camp and going to church and all this stuff.

I remember sitting in a McDonald's with him, talking to him about it. And he said, you know what?

I knew one day that you would come to this realization.

Because he too was just someone who didn't believe. And I didn't know that; I never knew that.

And I think that's like a perfect metaphor for how I think religion in the world should work: it should be deeply personal.

It shouldn't be, indoctrinate your kids to believe the things that you believe. It should be, let your kid explore who they are authentically.

You can influence them one way or another. You can teach them right from wrong, and that right from wrong doesn't need religion.

He supported me and listened to me waffle on and on about church camp and God this and Bible that, and never once did he say a word to contest those things, even though he didn't believe himself.

And I think that is just a perfect representation of how it should be. Let your kid explore, and let your kid figure things out on their own.

Let your kid question things. Let your kid be exposed to different beliefs.

I think religion, generally speaking, is a good thing. But I think all religions should be weighed on their own merit.

I think kids should be exposed to all religions, and not just indoctrinated into one and left to figure out what they believe. So that's pretty much it.

That's where I am. I'm currently in the Dallas, Texas area, moving to Austin, Texas later this year.

Looking forward to getting involved with local communities there. If you have any questions for me, leave them down below.

Thank you for tuning in. If you enjoyed this, please consider subscribing.

I'll be uploading a lot more content around religion, and my thoughts on what's going on in the church and other religious entities.

Thank you for tuning in. My name is Matthew, and I will see you in the next one.
