In 2007, roughly 78% of Americans called themselves Christians, and today it's only 62%. That's like tens of millions of people no longer being Christian.

And you have to ask, you know, why is Christianity in the United States failing? And I'm sure it's a question that many Christians are thinking as they see things in the world they don't agree with.

And it's something that I think a lot about as someone who previously was a Christian: what's causing people to leave the faith?

And I think that there are three main reasons for it. And I'll dive into those in this video, along with some Pew Research studies and some anecdotes from my hometown.

But the first, I think, is that the older, more conservative Christian people in this country are slowly starting to pass away from old age and from disease.

And they're being replaced by a predominantly younger, more progressive, more passionate group of voters coming up in this world that we're in.

It's coming harder and harder to get healthcare, to keep a shelter over your head, to buy a home, to go to college.

And I think that younger people are seeing that and turning to be more progressive and more passionate when it comes to how they vote.

Now the second thing, I think, is politics, plain and simple. Aligning Christian values to conservative talking heads has driven so many people away.

Even moderate, or left-leaning people, or even very lightly right-leaning people. It's driven so many people away from the faith.

Or, at a minimum, it's driven them to non-denominational versions of their faith.

And then third is the one that I think is the most important. And that is access to education, generally speaking, with the explosion of the internet.

Kids nowadays have endless amounts of thoughts and opinions and answers to questions at their fingertips. They can sit on a couch and ask it a question.

Like, I remember whenever I was going through my own deconstruction, my own story. And if you're interested in my story, I'll link it in the description and put it in the card here.

But man, if I could have asked a question to Google in like 2005, and it was as good as it is now, I might have not been a Christian as long as I was.

I think that just having that access to the information and the educational resources our kids have nowadays has played a huge role in people deconstructing their faith much more easily.

And I think that's even permeated smaller towns, like my own hometown. Because, again, people have this access.

You're no longer just surrounded by people who believe what you believe all the time. You have access to the internet.

And I think that's causing the strongest footholds for conservative Christianity, in small rural country towns, to slowly start to collapse as these people get new information.

You're no longer getting all of your information from your pastor. It's the internet that's changing the world very quickly, I think.

Even with those three major things contributing to the decline of Christianity in the United States, we've kind of seen the decline taper off a little bit.

I think a big reason is because anyone who's already left the faith has left, or has mostly left.

And I think now we're going to see it just be a slow decline, as the older conservative Christians pass away and are replaced with younger progressive voters.

So, to explain before I dive into those points more directly: I think religion, generally speaking, isn't bad. And I don't hate religious people.

I think if it gives your life meaning, you should 100% go for it. You should use it for good in your life.

I think that's awesome. If you get your meaning there, that is fantastic.

I hate people who use their religion as a tool for political gain, or to be hateful to others, or to discriminate against others, or to force their religion onto others.

Nobody cares if you think being gay is wrong. No one cares.

And I don't think you thinking that should mean that a gay person in this country should be negatively impacted in any way. They shouldn't be.

And I think that imposing your own moral and religious beliefs on others is the thing that infuriates me to no end.

But I think the decline in religious belief in the US is because of others who also believe what I just said. It's not about the religion itself; it's about the people who use it for malicious reasons.

So yeah, let's get into it. The first thing I want to look at is the Pew Religious Landscape Study.

It's a survey of about 37,000 US adults, run in 2007, 2014, and most recently in 2023 and 2024. It has a very low margin of error.

But looking at the trends, we have 78% of the country being Christian in 2007, about 71% in 2014, and down to 62% now.

The religiously unaffiliated, so atheists, agnostics, people who say they don't believe in anything, sit around 29% of adults.

Which is like triple what it was when I was born, in the 90s. Which is kind of massive, to think that it's grown so much.

And it's not like one particular denomination of Christianity taking the hit. It's every major branch: evangelicals, Protestants, historically black churches, Catholics.

Like I said earlier, the only real growth happening in the church is non-denominational churches. People leaving their denominations to break away from a rigid belief system.

So one cool stat is that 35% of US adults have switched religion since childhood. I'm one of those.

And it's more from Christianity to being non-religious than the other way around. So that's a trend worth noting.

So the first point I made, regarding older Christians dying out and younger progressive people coming in: I think it's not that the religion's being abandoned as much as it's just aging out.

Again looking at the study, adults aged 18 to 24, only 46% identify as Christian, compared to 80% of the oldest adults. Which is a massive, massive difference.

Every single generation we've seen has been less religious than the one that came before it. The older, more Christian generations are passing away.

So even though the transitional numbers are starting to stabilize, we're going to keep seeing older Christians die out, and new non-Christian people grow up in the world.

Why are young people less attached to religion? A good question.

I think for me, a big piece is that they never were attached in the first place. In my own story of leaving Christianity, I was in a similar boat.

I believed in Christianity more for the social and moral aspects, for a longer period of time, than for an actual deity or God.

And I think a lot of people are in a similar boat, where it's the socially acceptable, easy thing to do.

The study shows family as the single strongest transmitter of religion, which makes sense. Fewer kids are being raised in serious religious homes.

So, just anecdotally, I feel like most people who give up their religion don't leave because of one massive event.

It's not usually one big aha moment. It is a compounding series of events.

It is constantly questioning things you previously believed, until you realize that none of them really compute anymore.

And I think that's how it was for me too. Finding people who believed similarly online, and a student group at the college in my hometown, and realizing the pieces didn't fit together anymore.

So it's more of, like, quiet quitting, as you'd say in the professional world.

The second point I think I'll make is politics. I think politics is a big reason for people leaving the faith.

Because closely tying organized religion to conservatism has shot both groups in the foot. Now people isolate each other for not belonging to both groups.

If you are a Christian who is not conservative, you're going to have Christian conservatives going, wow, you believe in gay marriage, you believe in all this wild stuff, with no context.

And on the other side, if you're conservative but you're not Christian, they're going to be like, what do you even base yourself in? What do you base your beliefs in?

And they're so closely tied now that it's actually difficult to be one or the other and not just get endless flack for who you are.

It is okay to be Christian and conservative. It's okay to be Christian and not conservative.

And it's okay to be conservative and not Christian. But you will be isolated if you are not both.

For a lot of moderate and left-leaning liberal people, a change in their faith is largely because of the rejection of conservative politics.

And that's a shame. It feels terrible to believe in a thing deeply and feel like you no longer belong.

Of course, non-denominational churches and more progressive churches are good for those types of people.

But honestly, not-so-hot take here, I think there are a lot of Christian conservatives who are very science illiterate. And I think they use religion to justify heinous things.

They justify hatred, they justify excommunicating people, they justify a lot of really terrible things. And I think that pushed science-driven, moderate Christians out of their religion.

But looking at the Pew Research Study: self-described liberals who identified as Christian fell by 25 points since 2007, from 62% to 37%.

And for conservatives, it only fell seven points, from 89 to 82. Which is clearly one side of the political spectrum dipping out on Christianity.

There's another survey by PRRI, where they interviewed people who had left, to get more context.

About 30% cited negative teachings or treatment of LGBTQ people as directly impacting their decision to leave the faith. That is wild, right?

So like, what do you say? Can you blame them?

Again, that's Christian conservatives tying their religion to their politics, then pushing so hard on the fringe of American social beliefs.

It's isolating and ostracizing both groups of people. Which is not great.

The third and biggest reason I think people are leaving the faith is, again, the internet. And I say that as someone whose entire job is the internet.

Religious belief historically has relied on community consensus, on indoctrination, on everyone here believes the same thing, so you should too.

Same thing in my hometown. Everybody you knew believed roughly the same exact thing.

They didn't really care about denominations. They just cared that you went to church and you were Christian.

My hometown's always been like 99% Christian. And since I've left and grown up and moved, I'm pretty sure that's down to probably like 80% now.

There are just more people there who don't care, frankly, and they aren't afraid to say it.

I think the internet helped break cycles of indoctrination. Those with questions were able to find each other.

And I think that finding counterarguments for things you hear in Christianity became just one search away.

And most importantly, finding diversity, religious, racial, sexual identity, gender identity, across all of those spectrums in your own friend group has become so much more common.

With the advent of the internet, people in my hometown play video games and talk to their friends on Discord.

And the likelihood they have a friend on Discord who is gay, or transgender, or non-Christian, or from a different race or ethnicity, is very high.

Now, you're also going to find online communities that are very much terrible, racist people, and I'm not saying that doesn't exist.

But nowadays more and more people are friendly with those who are not exactly like them. And that's not how it always was in my hometown.

So I think finding religious diversity in your own circles is more common now. Mass adoption of the internet, and the resources there, have changed it a lot.

The last thing, in addition to those points, that I think causes a lot of the decrease in religion right now, is that we're seeing it kind of plateau a bit.

I think the switchers, as they were called, there are fewer of them now. Most people who had the propensity to switch would have already done so.

And so now it is mostly just the replacement of the older Christian conservative folks with younger progressive non-religious people.

As we move forward, that's going to continue changing what the dynamic of the country looks like.

So why is Christianity failing in the US? Fewer kids are raised in it, the loudest institutions decided to marry a political party, which was terrible for everyone involved.

And the internet. The internet ended an era where belief and indoctrination were paramount, where you got all of your information from your parents, your community, and your pastor.

And I think that nowadays people have more resources, and more friends, and more availability for things.

So yeah, if you thought this video was interesting, please consider subscribing. I love talking about religion, lack of religion, and everything in between.

I'm always open to learning new things, so let me know what you think down below. Are you a Christian, and what made you stay or leave?

Yeah, I'm really interested to know what your thoughts are. Please leave them down below.

Please be kind to your neighbor, your fellow commenter, your community, and most importantly, to yourself.

My name is Matthew. I'll see you in the next one.
